provisioning: add Exoscale instructions (#87)
coreos/fedora-coreos-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/provisioning-exoscale.adoc

= Provisioning Fedora CoreOS on Exoscale

This guide shows how to provision new Fedora CoreOS (FCOS) instances on https://exoscale.com[Exoscale] Cloud Hosting.

== Prerequisites

> Before provisioning a FCOS instance, you can use or not an Ignition configuration file containing your customizations. If you need one, see xref:producing-ign.adoc[Producing an Ignition File].

Reviewer: This is a funny sentence :)

I see that that in other similar pages we have a "must" which is probably too strong. What about "you may want to have at hand an Ignition configuration ..."?

Author: 5b181e5

> Before provisioning a FCOS instance, you can use or not an Ignition configuration file containing your customizations. If you need one, see xref:producing-ign.adoc[Producing an Ignition File].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before provisioning a FCOS instance, you can optionally create an Ignition configuration file containing your customizations. If you need one, see xref:producing-ign.adoc[Producing an Ignition File].
```

You also need to have access to an Exoscale account. https://portal.exoscale.com/register[Register] if you don't have one.

== About images

> Fedora CoreOS is updated at every major change on our platform. The future goal is to have Exoscale FCOS in https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=cloud_launchable[Cloud Lauchable] section, to be updated at every release.

Reviewer: I'd rewrite the first sentence as:
"Fedora CoreOS image are periodically update by Exoscale on their platform. The future ..."

Author: 1c31a1f

> == Launching a VM instance

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Launching a VM instance (Web Portal)
```

> You can provision a FCOS instance using the Exoscale https://portal.exoscale.com/compute/instances/add?os-group=coreos[Web Portal]. Then you can choose your FCOS version and follow the instance creation wizard.

Reviewer: Can we move this sentence to the bottom of the page as its own section? We do prefer highlighting flow which are automation-friendly first.

Author: @lucab just to be transparent, there is two way to deploy FCOS at Exoscale, we provide an official image template, which is `Linux Fedora CoreOS 32 64-bit`, Launchable from the platform: https://www.exoscale.com/templates#Fedora

or by uploading the qcow2 as a custom image and launch it like an official image template

If you just want SSH access and no further customization, you don't need to pass any custom instance user-data.
Depending on your Exoscale Organization, relevant SSH public keys will be automatically added to the VM. This provides an easy way to test out FCOS without first creating an Ignition config.

> If you need an Ignition config, paste-it in the User Data section in the instance creation wizard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you need an Ignition config, paste it in the User Data section in the instance creation wizard.
```

> If you need an Ignition config, paste it in the User Data section in the instance creation wizard.

Reviewer: Suggestion:
"If you need to apply any customization, you can provide an Ignition configuration as user-data when creating a new machine instance."

Author: 3aa9607

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

== Launching a VM instance (CLI)

```

> Otherwise, you can provision a FCOS instance using https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/tools/exoscale-command-line-interface/[Exoscale CLI]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you prefer to use a CLI you can provision an FCOS instance using https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/tools/exoscale-command-line-interface/[Exoscale CLI].
```

.Launching a new instance with Exoscale CLI
[source, bash]
----
VM_NAME='fcos-node01'
exo vm create "${VM_NAME}" \
    --template "Linux Fedora CoreOS 32 64-bit" \
    --keypair "my_key_name" \
    --cloud-init-file "path/to/ignition-file.ign" # Optional, if you want to launch a customized FCOS instance.
----

.SSH to the instance
[source, bash]
----
VM_NAME='fcos-node01'
exo ssh "${VM_NAME}"
----

> == Launching a VM instance as a https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/compute/custom-templates[custom Template]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Uploading an FCOS image as a https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/compute/custom-templates[custom Template]
```

> == Launching a VM instance as a https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/compute/custom-templates[custom Template]

Reviewer: I think that links in title are a bit problematic. It would be better to move the link into the body of this section.

Author: 3aa9607

> Download the Qcow2 image on the Fedora's website in the section https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=cloud_operators[Cloud Operators].

Reviewer: `coreos-installer download` should be able to take care of this. See the vmware page for an example.

Author: 0ebec52

> .Unxz the file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Uncompress the file
```

[source, bash]
----
unxz "fedora-coreos-$VERSION-exoscale.x86_64.qcow2.xz"
----

> You need to resize the image virtual size to 10G.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, interesting. Do you have more info on why this is required?

Author: what do you think also about that?
https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-docs/pull/87#discussion_r444257187

.Resize image virtual size with qemu-img
[source, bash]
----

> qemu-img resize "fedora-coreos-$VERSION-exoscale.x86_64.qcow2" +2G

Reviewer 4: Is this necessary?  Does exoscale not support specifying the root device size at provisioning time?  Why the `+2G`?

Reviewer 2: @pierre-emmanuelJ - it might be worth you adding a comment to https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/492 - depending on how we implement that it could be applied more generically.

Reviewer 2: even better if you had some cycles and wanted to try to drive that feature within COSA

----

Then you need to https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/compute/custom-templates/#register-a-custom-template[register your custom Template] from the Web Portal or the Exoscale CLI.

> Once it done, you can use it like an official Exoscale Template Image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once it is done, you can use it like an official Exoscale Template Image.
```

= Provisioning Fedora CoreOS on Exoscale

This guide shows how to provision new Fedora CoreOS (FCOS) instances on https://exoscale.com[Exoscale] Cloud Hosting.

== Prerequisites

Before provisioning a FCOS instance, you may want to have at hand an Ignition configuration file containing your customizations. If you need one, see xref:producing-ign.adoc[Producing an Ignition File].

You also need to have access to an Exoscale account. https://portal.exoscale.com/register[Register] if you don't have one.

== About images

> Fedora CoreOS image are periodically update by Exoscale on their platform. The future goal is to have Exoscale FCOS in https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=cloud_launchable[Cloud Lauchable] section, to be updated at every release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fedora CoreOS images are periodically updated by Exoscale on their platform. The future goal is to have an Exoscale FCOS link in the  https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=cloud_launchable[Cloud Lauchable] section, to be updated at every release.
```

You also need to have access to an Exoscale account. https://portal.exoscale.com/register[Register] if you don't have one.

== About images

Fedora CoreOS image are periodically update by Exoscale on their platform. The future goal is to have Exoscale FCOS in https://getfedora.org/en/coreos/download?tab=cloud_launchable[Cloud Lauchable] section, to be updated at every release.

== Launching a VM instance (Web Portal)

You can provision a FCOS instance using the Exoscale https://portal.exoscale.com/compute/instances/add?os-group=coreos[Web Portal]. Then you can choose your FCOS version and follow the instance creation wizard.

If you just want SSH access and no further customization, you don't need to pass any custom instance user-data.
Depending on your Exoscale Organization, relevant SSH public keys will be automatically added to the VM. This provides an easy way to test out FCOS without first creating an Ignition config.

If you need to apply any customization, you can provide an Ignition configuration as user-data when creating a new machine instance.

== Launching a VM instance (CLI)

> If you prefer to use a CLI you can provision an FCOS instance using https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/tools/exoscale-command-line-interface/[Exoscale CLI].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you prefer to use a CLI you can provision an FCOS instance using the https://community.exoscale.com/documentation/tools/exoscale-command-line-interface/[Exoscale CLI].
```
